Now that we're aware of the process that we need to go through in order to get our Android app running
on our phone, as well as getting the binary that we would utilize to go on the Google Play store and
go through the release procedure, we need to go through the same process for iOS.
And so the way that we would do that is we would run Expo, build iOS.
Now you have to be aware that when we build for iOS, first of all, we need a bundle identifier.
This is just an identifier that the app is going to use in order to know, hey, this is my unique name,
my unique identifier.
So we'll take the one that's auto generated and now we get to choose the build type.
So for iOS, there are different bill types.
It's not an app and an Android app bundle.
No, it's an archive or a simulator.
So we can determine whether or not we want to build in order to run a production grade app on our simulator
or we want to deploy the build to the store.
Either process has different requirements.
So if we go down the route of archive now, it's going to ask us, do you have credentials for mobility
in the project?
Needs to go.
OK, so it's going to access the credentials.
Do we have the access to the Apple store account that will be used for submitting to the App Store?
Well.
Now, the question becomes, if we're in a live environment, if we're at a company, do we have access
to credentials that are going to be used to deploy to the store?
In this case, what we'll say is no.
And now it says no problem.
We can auto generate credentials if we don't have them to the main Apple account.
Right.
But we can still set up for the upload credentials, so.
Will we provide our own distribution certificate, so here is the process where we're saying, OK,
we don't have the credentials to deploy to the App Store, they may be in the hands of marketing, they
may be in the hands of a different department altogether.
But now the question is, will you provide your own Apple distribution certificate?
Well, in this case, we'll say let expl handle it.
OK, so now we have to enter your Apple developer program credentials.
If you do not have an Apple developer program credential, what you need to do is you need to go over
to developer the apple dotcom and then you need to enroll in the program.
Now you can enroll as an individual or as an organization, and this will enable you to release to the
App Store.
Luckily, I already have an account, so my Apple ID is this email and for the password I will quickly
fill out the password.
And so if I hit enter here, what it's going to do is it's going to authenticate against the Apple developer
portal and it's going to ask for access.
So we're going to fill in our six digit code here that is going to show us five to nine.
Nine to.
And then it's going to request for a session and what it's going to say is now failed to prompt for
all the credentials.
Next time you build automatically, it will use the credentials.
You have no team associated with your Apple account.
Now, we need to make sure that we have a Pete Apple developer account.
Do we actually have a paid Apple developer account?
That is a good question.
If we look at the status of the changes that it's made, Will, now we're basically in a state where
we need to make sure that we have an Apple developer account.
Otherwise we cannot even begin to build the output that is required to run our app on our phone.
This is one of the cruxes of apple development.
So let me go and make sure that I have an Apple developer account.
And so, as you can see over here, currently, I am not enrolled in the Apple developer program.
Now, if you subscribe to the Apple developer program, you can go through this.
I can reapply to the Apple developer program.
And so what I've done is I've gone through the process of renewing my membership.
And so the same would apply to you if you tried to apply this expo, build iOS without having the proper
account information.
So let's go through this again.
Now we're going to say no here and we're going to say let expl handle the process again.
We're going to authenticate against the portal.
And if authenticated successfully, it's now creating a distribution certificate and all of that stuff.
Now that I have a valid Apple account again, will you provide your own app, a push notification service
again?
We're going to let XML handle it.
So we're going to go let it go through the process of setting up our Apple developer account, setting
up everything that needs to be set up in terms of provisioning profiles and all of that good stuff.
Now we've run into another error.
Runtime error cannot find app would bundle ID come up beneath that meals to go.
Interestingly enough, it's run into an error.
So if we go here to our bundle and certificates list.
Well, we can see here is that we have an IRS distribution certificate.
We do not have any identifiers.
We have a device set up.
But what we need to do here is we need to add an app I.D., so let's add an identifier so we'll add
an app ID, will it continue?
We'll say app will continue.
And what we'll say over here is that the bundle ID needs to be.
Com dot mobeen.
That means to go, so we need to make sure that that's set up in our account, we'll see meals to go
now.
We can determine what access it will have.
We should allow something called push notifications.
We should enable this register, and now that we've registered Miles to go, we can try this process
again.
No, let Expo handle it.
And then we'll sign in, it's going to try to create the provisioning profiles.
Again, it's going to try to optimize the assets and now it's actually able to set everything up in
order to release our application.
So now it's built and optimized our resources, our source maps and our code.
And it's uploading our build over here on XPO.
And what we can see if we go over to Build's is that now a build has started for iOS and so XPO is now
generating the necessary files for iOS.
So it's important to note here that we needed to set up the identifier in our certificate's identifiers
and profiles in order for Expo to be able to manage the output build.
And once this is done building, we'll show you how to run this on your phone.